Misty Moncada: Hi, Jessica.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How are you
I'm
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Good.
Misty Moncada: Know, so I can go
Misty Moncada: Home get the baby I therapy online, he's outside. I got in my purpose was already online.
Misty Moncada: Okay.
Misty Moncada: Okay, I'm sorry.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: No, no problem.
Misty Moncada: Sorry.
Misty Moncada: Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Been
Misty Moncada: I think good
Misty Moncada: And you can be proud of me. I did that pause thing that you told me to do. Um, I
Misty Moncada: Was mad because I started work.
Misty Moncada: The first time and I had was it like battery. The Onion rings right and
Misty Moncada: I messed up, but I do the
Misty Moncada: Better way, not knowing I had to reuse it and
Misty Moncada: I get mad easily like its own clouds. I mean, it's funny at so like they were laughing and I was like the managers are like you through that shit away and they're like laughing The workers and they're like, they're like, Did nobody tell you. And usually I was like, kind of get
mad. I was like, oh,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Man, I just
Misty Moncada: Paused, and I thought about it and I took it as a joke.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I mean it. There's so much significance in the PAS
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes. So what did you think after that.
Misty Moncada: Um,
Misty Moncada: I feel better because me. I probably lost my job because I told him to fuck off.
Misty Moncada: And like I just, I don't think before I asked.
Misty Moncada: So after I told them that and then like when I got off work. I was like, wow, that felt really good to take something and not take it bad.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So,
Misty Moncada: For me, I was a big step for me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Good, good.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, I'm happy to hear that. So, so the pause was allowing you to not have an exaggerated emotion, but to really pause and see like okay see that perhaps they're just joking with me.
Misty Moncada: Yes, and she like me at first I was like okay I didn't get
Misty Moncada: Funding because my fish. It's not cool. But then I got to thinking like exactly what you said like costing you know
Misty Moncada: stop for a minute, and then I just laughed with them and I saw nobody did teaching. So, you know, I, I'm
Misty Moncada: That was a big step in it. Like I said, it felt really good like hours later I registered it
Misty Moncada: Not immediately.
Misty Moncada: I was still angry at the moment so I
Misty Moncada: Was trying to trying to get out of my head.
Misty Moncada: Hours later I realized that I didn't do anything. So
Misty Moncada: It turned out good.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Good. And even if you didn't notice in that moment, the fact that that cause still helps you to not
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Show an outward response that, like you said, kind of costume your job or major be looked at differently. It's still good. So I think that's excellent.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Any other moments.
Misty Moncada: No, I know moments. I'm kind of happy that my daughter came
Misty Moncada: Home and I'm she's been here since Mother's Day, and I've been like her stay in the room with her boyfriend.
Misty Moncada: She saved here. So I was really excited about that. And she's been helping with the baby a lot more. So I had my grandson, so I think
Misty Moncada: I was just really happy about. That's another thing.
Misty Moncada: Just made me feel better.
Misty Moncada: Yeah, I don't have much stress and anxiety right now because I'm worried about what
She's
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, so you used to live with your mom and now you're in your own space right yes I'm in New Mexico.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes. Which part of New Mexico, are you, I'm in Clovis
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh, yes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, good. Well, what feels important to discuss today during session.
I'm
Misty Moncada: Like
Misty Moncada: There's nothing really bothering me today. I did talk to mental health today and told him I
Misty Moncada: Was I was also very respectful about that I wasn't disrespectful. I said I would like to withdraw from mental health services because I have another therapist.
Misty Moncada: And the care coordinator was like, well, can I still stay with you meet with you and every need me. And I really liked her. So I said, Yeah, she's I just kind of concerned for you out here. So, um, I did agree to that, but I would respectfully.
Misty Moncada: So, um, that was a good thing, but
Misty Moncada: Other than that, there's nothing really bothering me. Like, I feel so content right now and I feel happy and
Misty Moncada: I had two days off from work. I had put in like 38 hours and six days.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I personally wouldn't have crazy schedule.
Misty Moncada: My first six days I put in 38 hours so
Misty Moncada: Um, I would, I made exhausted. I was exhausted me yesterday to hear my days off. So I feel good. I'll go to work at 345 in the morning, so I'm
Oh,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, it's open 24 seven
Misty Moncada: Is that why no no they open it.
Misty Moncada: I think six is when they open, but I'm and I'll go in from 4am to 10 and I start prepping
Misty Moncada: So by time.
Misty Moncada: I get off like I have to prep all the vegetables and then they run out. I'm hearing so fast every day. So like they want me to get started. Entering so for lunch time.
Misty Moncada: So that's why we go into early, but they oh yeah because they for breakfast. They have this morning, very early.
Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, you look happy. So that's good news to hear and to see
Misty Moncada: Yes, I do. I feel better. I just, I don't feel so stressed out right now.
Misty Moncada: And
Misty Moncada: That's a big thing for me, you know. And I just, I get like really stressed, I get angry and frustrated and take it out, everybody right now. I just
Misty Moncada: I feel like things are things are gonna be able. Hey, but I just got stopped like what you said like, you know, you know, these last last we spoke to each other and you told me things about myself like
Misty Moncada: Now I realize those, you know, so it's like now I'm kinda like, okay, I need to get into. Oh, I really want to work on that. No, no, I want to work.
Misty Moncada: On how to talk to people and I don't know how to talk to people. Right. And that's a big thing for me, too. So I've been trying to work on that, like how I speak to people or, um,
Misty Moncada: Doing good, though this week.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Good any triggers red flag thoughts, relax.
Misty Moncada: No, not really. I'm not really, not this week, I think, cuz I don't have it in time.
Misty Moncada: Like since I've been working. I don't have idle time on my hands. So I haven't really had time to think about it.
Misty Moncada: And then these last two days that I was off of having the kids here, it just that crossed my mind if they were you know I wouldn't do it around them so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I do have a question with
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The New Mexico place that you were going to, you start with the therapy. But is that going to impact your because once you get a medication from a psychiatrist.
Misty Moncada: I was I was that like, um, I was getting anxiety meds and then they were like,
Misty Moncada: They were like telling me. Okay. I was diagnosed with bipolar and i was i have circle, but like, for me, I'm
Misty Moncada: I love the anxiety, that's going to work. Like, I still have anxiety. After last year, I've been on these methods. Last year, they don't work.
Misty Moncada: My anxiety saw you know here and there, but, um, I just thought to thinking like
Misty Moncada: Last week, how you said like policy for, I think, and I think a lot of things I did. Maybe I can be by for, I don't know. I get angry over a lot of stuff and
Misty Moncada: But if I just like you pointed out something to meet. It was kind of new to me like if I just pause and think about maybe that will not about me, it's not. I want to depend on it to the rest of my life.
Misty Moncada: I feel like
Misty Moncada: If it gets Dad, I feel like it's definitely care coordinator know and you know she can send me appointment immediately if it does get that, but I'm going to start. That's my goal is to kind of work on state off meds.
And
Misty Moncada: Time.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's good. As long as if you notice that okay this is becoming unmanageable. And I need the additional support of the medication, you know, you still have access to that resource and she can connect you with any
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Reports that you need. How often do you meet with that person.
Misty Moncada: And I have a quick tomorrow on the
Misty Moncada: Phone usually her and I used to meet at the library, show me January, she'll come to my house. She'll read Reichel comfortable so I don't have to go to the office, but she's basically here for me if I
Misty Moncada: Need doctors appointments or I don't have a right to call safe carriers, they fry for me to get to doctors appointments. She'll give me three bus passes every week, so I can have rights to from where I need to go.
Misty Moncada: Or juice.
Misty Moncada: If I'm not capable of doing it, or I'm not my right mind to do it. She'll take care of it for me. So
Misty Moncada: Um, she just said she for a little while she's kind of concerned because, you know, she just wants to be there, make sure I'm okay or and I think that's kind of a good thing. But yeah, I'll meet with her every week.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What do you think her concerns are.
Misty Moncada: Um,
Misty Moncada: Well, I don't know, like maybe because a lot of things I was going through and I was explaining to her. I think for the whole prone of I was saying like i into like I had relapsed I had told her I was stressed out of me. My daughter fighting so many things and
Misty Moncada: She probably feels like
Misty Moncada: I maybe I do need minutes, maybe, but like what you pointed out to me just made me feel like maybe if I just stop and pause up
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So,
Misty Moncada: I'll work on both I'll work with you and work with her.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. Yes. See, you're very in tune. And I'm glad that our conversation last week sparked hoping you that, you know, I can do this. You know, I'm self sufficient. I can be able to manage my emotions.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And maybe I don't need the extra support, but you also are intuitive with your body and your responses of knowing that, hey, I might need some additional support so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How would you, how would you know that the therapy alone just you and i is enough in that you don't need the medicine. And then also, how would you know if hey I do need the medicine, actually.
Misty Moncada: And see, I don't know. I don't well
Misty Moncada: I'll be honest, I haven't taken like two minutes.
Misty Moncada: Okay, have it.
Misty Moncada: No, not yet. Like I'm
Misty Moncada: I really haven't, I haven't taken them. I just
Misty Moncada: I don't know, I just simply me like I got to thinking, I don't want to be dependent on this whole life. So I just go take, you know, one day, and I, I didn't tell her that she was just concerned that I know and
Misty Moncada: I'd be more concerned. But all I told her tomorrow that I did. I just like talking to Samantha. She wasn't very comfortable inviting feeling like you could talk to you and I will pay and that's the way it is Samantha. As for like the issue. I had with a doctor or or
Misty Moncada: how I felt about my therapist telling me with my PO I just felt like I didn't trust her even though I signed a release. You know, I, I just felt like I couldn't trust your life. How am I supposed to providing you right away you're quick to say something like that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They're putting out with drew me from her. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, well I'm going to trust your instincts, you've been doing this long enough. You know what works for you. So as long as
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I know that you have the resources available to you, whenever you need it. And you know how to access that I support you. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, let me know if there's anything that I should look out for that might be a sign like Hey, let me encourage you, or my view of this reports. So how do you know when you're overly anxious
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And it's manageable for you.
Misty Moncada: Um,
Misty Moncada: I get like excited like pumped up like I want to start doing so many things.
Misty Moncada: Like when I get excited. It's like
Misty Moncada: I just want to do stuff like just out of nowhere and but then I have. I'm like, naturally just hyperactive.
So,
Misty Moncada: That's when he finds it like I will be able to sit down, I might not be ready.
Misty Moncada: To start a job for
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It and then just sleeping get impacted to
Misty Moncada: Yes I suffer from sleep deprivation bad for anxiety I explained to the doctor helps twice about sleep deprivation and she
Misty Moncada: She will it's just pulled out a little bit longer. So the last, like I said last meeting we had she was like, well, you don't think like Suboxone like messing with you like your sauna substitute was just kind of rude. So they're finding want to see her, and you more about it.
Misty Moncada: You've never rude.
Misty Moncada: But like I try to explain it for like to have it and I can't sleep so um I like I'm taking the therapy to help me sleep, but lately. Since I've been working this whole week I've been really tired so soon as I get off of work. I'm tired and I'm able to sleep now. So maybe I'm just like,
Misty Moncada: You know, that's good for me. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But so it sounds like what you described is like a manic episodes. So the manic episodes with the bipolar disorder is when yeah it's hard for you to sleep.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, you're very busy hyper active, you might do some impulsive things that you normally wouldn't do just because of the fact that you have so much energy that you want to release so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's something that you'll look out for. All right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right now I'm
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Looking at your band survey and you haven't had much sleep issues, which is good.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Low on the an hour and depression.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Good, yeah. It has been a good week for you craving withdrawals or attitude.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But it seems like the week before those that are one. So it went up a little for you this week.
Misty Moncada: Um, I guess it did because like I
Misty Moncada: Was drinking last week.
Misty Moncada: But I told you I drink. And then when I heard last week before the week before. Okay. So, whenever I came off the off the off the phone was more my drugs.
Misty Moncada: And heroin knows a lot. I used to like to mix them a lot so dangerous. Um, well, when I come off of off the hook the cravings are unbearable for days.
Misty Moncada: Where I felt like
Misty Moncada: Felt like nervous.
Misty Moncada: All last week. It was just like, like I was
Misty Moncada: Nervous.
Misty Moncada: But I just kept telling myself. You don't need it. You don't need it like
So,
Misty Moncada: I see how it goes. I hope he remains I get because I'm scared. I'm going to open up doors to go back to that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. Yeah. Have you spoken to you. I'm your primary doctor or Dr element about some of the alcohol use as well. Maybe they can offer some support.
Misty Moncada: I did talk to him about the alcohol use. I did admit that I was drinking, so he can't be down for might give me two weeks scripts to more counseling. He thought it was best night. See you every week. And so I got
Misty Moncada: So I got, you know, stable and he said, just kind of keeping an eye on me right now so
Misty Moncada: Which is OK. But he was just kind of conservative I did tell him that I didn't have a dream all week.
Misty Moncada: And so I was in group on Friday. So it was like a data store.
Misty Moncada: But I struggle with the cravings. All right, so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah yeah and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The alcohol cravings will probably be more intense because alcohol is so much more accessible right and you see it everywhere. Like, you know, because it's socially acceptable and so having that recognition.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Recognition that the alcohol is like that gateway for you to use heroin. So if you can just identify. Remember I talked about using that imagery sense if you identify alcohol.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Just like heroin not giving it a distinction, then that will help you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To not see that it's socially acceptable or give you that little inch of let me compromise because once you start the negotiation phase be addicted brain is already taking control. So if you can just imagine that all
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is equal to the heroin, then that perhaps can change that mindset, so that you won't have the cravings as intense and you won't use the alcohol, which then turns into the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That makes sense.
Misty Moncada: Yes, yes.
Misty Moncada: Yes, it does make sense. And it's a big trigger for me because when I started drinking right away. I like my whole thing was mixing the alcohol and the heroin together and and getting that effect like that was messed up a bit. So once I started
Misty Moncada: Out, you know,
And so
Misty Moncada: Yeah, I really got to work out soon. I haven't relapsed on heroin, but I'm scared a little
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes. So tell me what has been helpful for you this week. What was your coping fat whenever you had those cravings. What did you tell yourself.
Misty Moncada: I was like, I have a job. Oh, I didn't tell you this Mother's Day. My dad came to visit me
Misty Moncada: Give me just drugs.
Misty Moncada: Okay, well I didn't tell you I did there was an engineer. Okay. So he comes in the house, and it comes to visit me from Texas, really excited. Kids are here and stuff and he pulls out his neck bowl and it's like, and I get this in here. And I was like, no.
Misty Moncada: It's not like, no, I got this House for me in the baby and like I don't want to smell in here and you know
Misty Moncada: Now that yes on Sunday. I told him.
No.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Feel
Misty Moncada: It felt good, because like
Misty Moncada: He was like a serious
Misty Moncada: I made me on their phone call him I was
Misty Moncada: I was just like a really proud of myself because I was able to say like
Misty Moncada: He's
Misty Moncada: He tried to offer me something. I was like, I don't
Misty Moncada: Know,
Misty Moncada: So that was a big step for me. But then again, that wasn't my choice of drug, but it was a big step. And it was a good feeling decide
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes, yes, that is definitely a milestone to celebrate because even though it's not your drug of choice. You know that typically
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There's replacement Ross can't get access to your drug of
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Choice in something else. So the fact that you are able to say no increase that hard boundary
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's good.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Misty Moncada: Yeah, I'm really hoping I say
Misty Moncada: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What was that he broke up.
Misty Moncada: I know I'm listening to the coconut
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Know the copy of I have a job and then also attachment with the distraction that you mentioned men been so busy so that that helps because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What you did in that quick moment of him offering you the money and you probably didn't realize it is that you thought of, like, in the past, probably what you would have done.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so that's your old coping strategy, you probably thought, well, you know, a few weeks ago I did it say no, I didn't create this foundry.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then what happened was I relaxed. I felt terrible after the fact. And then I had to give these disclosures to the doctors and therapists, I had to do this and it's like I had to start all over again. So
Misty Moncada: Yeah, that is one thing. And then another thing.
Misty Moncada: I work so hard to get like this House and get a job like if I do that, I'm not going to have a job right.
Misty Moncada: Now another thing that I
Misty Moncada: Immediately thought
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, yeah. So this is what you did you created without even knowing intentionally you develop your coping strategy.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, you were able to assess very quickly what the consequences consequences are. When you relax and then identify what are the positive outcomes you choose not to use. And so in bed. No.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: right quick.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Analysis. That's what you did.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And because I think
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: A better place this week.
Misty Moncada: Right.
Misty Moncada: And I felt like it was just a big step for me to and then also working like I know that I'm tired. So I don't have a lot of time to think about things.
Misty Moncada: Like that I kind of like that right now. Like I like knowing that, like, I'll be ready to wake up at three in the morning and I'm already ready. I got my work clothes ready. Um, I know once I get home. I'm tired. I'm exhausted.
Misty Moncada: And I just want to sleep or rest so
Misty Moncada: You know, it's just
Misty Moncada: I think it's be having a job sleeping at home.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, good. So identifying that the job is really part of your coping strategy that the pause effect is just want to be very key to managing the emotions.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I would say that the parallel of you identifying the power of the pause and really recognizing okay let me look at this all the way around and not just with filtered lens helps you to make that wise choice to say no.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This is like so simple, like I said last week of just pause it sounds very simple but it's so powerful. The know it's a simple word but yes so powerful.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So that's why, whenever we start if you notice, x you like what are small victories. What are those things because sometimes we're just going through the motions and we're not realizing the small things that we're doing really very significant.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I want to assist you with more skills on how to set boundaries because it may become harder and harder because you still have attachments to people that are in an active addiction.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And because they have CLOSE RELATIONSHIP TO YOU WITH PEOPLE DO LOVE you might find yourself having to say no more often until you're able to find a way to just distance yourself all together.
Misty Moncada: Right. And usually, I'm the kind of person like my teacher. Oh, like I would hear that you do it, and I just don't care to go ahead, but for me.
Misty Moncada: I know it sticks on walls. I know that I got this place for me. My grandson, and he plays a lot and I don't want him to have that in plus is in the house like that really
Misty Moncada: pissed me off, but at the same time, I didn't get angry about it. I didn't yell at him. I just said, No, you cannot. Like, I worked hard to get. And so that was a big
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Smile.
Take that immediately back into school because they use their
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is the belief that a boundary is telling the other person what they need to do. So let's take a better look at how to set boundaries in a way that actually works.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: setting boundaries is about taking action within your realm of control if you're trying to change another person you're focusing on changing something that you have no power over
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It creates a sense of powerlessness, and I think that's why a lot of people feel frustrated about boundaries. For example, you can't talk to me that way. I mean,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is that true, I mean of course they can talk to you that way. Now there might be consequences for them doing it, but they can talk to you that way.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: A real boundary is saying what you're going to do in response to their behaviors. Let's use an example from my treatment center experience. So I once had this client who arrived in treatment and for three days. She didn't talk
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Eat were take her medicine. Now, after a couple days we were all feeling pretty worried and the staff came to our weekly meeting.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Basically, you know, in a panics and you have to do something you have to make her eat now. What were our options right
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We couldn't force food into her mouth and move her jaw up and down like that's not going to do anything.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We could threaten her say if you don't eat. Then we're going to punish you later. Or if you don't eat bad things are going to happen to you. Where are other options.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We could throw a little fit, you know, I could scream and yell make a big scene about it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But again, she would always have that that choice of whether or not she eats. Now, the more anxious, we get, the more likely we're going to be doing things that aren't intentional and try to be more and more forceful
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And the problem with that is if the deeper problem with most people has nothing to do with the surface behavior. It's a deeper problem is about anxiety for
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: self worth than the harder we force the bigger the problem is going to be so with this client. She was feeling really scared and looking for some control in her environment.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And the more we forced it upon her, the less likely she was going to be able to resolve that need for safety and self control. Now remember all these different options that we could talk about in that staff meeting.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We're probably going to make the problem worse. Why is that, well, the more we push on someone else, the more they're going to push back.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The harder we try and make our child to do something, the less likely they're going to want to do that on their own in the future. Now, I'm not saying that we just give up and let our kid or our employees do whatever they want.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right. Research shows that loss, a fair parenting meaning just kind of letting kids run themselves is just as harmful for kids as authoritarian harsh parenting.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The type of parenting that creates the best results is high love high boundaries so you have high expectations.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And you're also fostering that in this environment of love and support. So how do we set boundaries. If we are focusing on telling someone else what they need to do boundaries are about saying what you will do
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So they often involve an if then statement. Like if you don't eat your food, then you can't have ice cream later I'm not necessarily saying that this is the only approach or the best approach.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To the not eating the situation, but it is the basic idea behind it is we have to think of boundaries as being about saying what we are going to do and the action. We are going to take in response to a situation
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And part of this is just acknowledging that everyone around us has their own agency, they have the ability to choose what kind of decisions, they're going to make
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And trying to force them to change is going to backfire. When adults interact and try to set boundaries. They often try to convince someone else debate with them.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or change how that person is treating them perhaps they demanded that the other person treat them differently.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Regardless of the exact approach, all of these different styles are attempts to getting the other person to change, which creates a powerless feeling for the person who's trying to set that boundary. So
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Let's talk about a few steps to setting good healthy assertive boundaries. This topic is continued in the next video how to set boundaries part to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Check it out to hear what happened with my client and learn specific steps to setting boundaries in different situations. I hope this was helpful. Thanks for watching, and take care
Misty Moncada: Because
Misty Moncada: Remember how like last week and I told you that my when I got angry because my therapist is like, Okay, did you did your P O know about this and I got angry because I was like
Misty Moncada: Did she tell me yes but I like Texas is like you're going to say what they want to see, they could do it. They want to do you know they're gonna do it.
Misty Moncada: And change that.
Misty Moncada: I guess it's just how I react to situations. I need to learn how to do that because i don't think i i mean i did not know how to learn. I don't know how to react to certain situations. I just blow up.
Misty Moncada: So that's what that pause comes in, but I really like that because I feel like putting the pause and that together really helped me
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The past allows them to realize okay because what what we've noticed in on the pattern is that when you feel the lack of control. That's when
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's when you usually go off. That's when the emotions are unregulated and you get an intense response. So when misty pauses, she is able to exert internal control.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what we want to focus on is not seeing how powerful we look to people on the outside right of letting the setting the tone that people know they can't try you, but inside having that internal control that misty is powerful enough to about her emotions.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: She's probably not powerful enough to even be vulnerable and so in the upbringing, that you have in the trauma that you experience.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: BEING VULNERABLE was not phrase, it is something that's look back as a weakness. And so what I heard about the situation that happened that work is and people were laughing
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It was almost like you were getting upset, but maybe some tinge of embarrassment that are they making fun of me. I'll be laughing at me or are we just, we're going to laugh together.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so when you were able to pause you were able to see that. Okay. This isn't about me. This isn't them trying to make fun of me and then even the follow up statement that you share with them to say, you know what, no they didn't tell me that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's allowing yourself to say, hey, this is something that I did not know.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right, so it's allow yourself the grace to realize I, how could I have possibly know and so that takes down your defense.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Your defense is so strong, because of the trauma and being incarcerated and dealing with drug dealers and the violence, you had to be an accent so people know, not for trying
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To show makeup. Don't take work nicely, but you're already doing the work you're already doing a good job with just that simple. Pause and the power of your know to your eggs.
Misty Moncada: Yes, thank you. And that's
Misty Moncada: Probably my my care provider Mitchell.
Misty Moncada: Airport eaters concerned about is because I have there's sometimes I get to teach life feelings were all like want to stay in the house and knock him out for days and I know she was concerned about that.
Misty Moncada: Concern and that doesn't happen a lot, but when it does, I don't care about me. Like, I don't care. Like, I will make an appointment I will talk to anybody. I will isolate myself, my mother and my kids anybody
Misty Moncada: And I explained that to her. So I think that was what
Misty Moncada: I did. That's one of her main concerns.
Misty Moncada: You know,
Misty Moncada: She said, if that ever happened for me to just contact her and like
Misty Moncada: She, you know, just at least call her text her, let her know she'll do the best to talk me out of that.
Misty Moncada: So I don't have those feelings.
Misty Moncada: And and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We come what's going on with that.
Misty Moncada: That I still can't recognize because I was told that there has to be some type
Misty Moncada: Of trigger that causes that and for me I kept telling it like I've been doing this since I got out of prison and sweet teen and like I still can't tell which are which right now. She even
Misty Moncada: Clarify what's bothering me at that moment, but I just know that when I get like that i don't i don't care about in my phone good reading my
Misty Moncada: My mother could be calling me worried
Misty Moncada: Sick. It's text me I will ignore anybody and I will isolate myself like you know just isolation and like I need to figure that out. I need to figure out an answer. I think that little journal that you told me to keep up my feeling or no libretto
Misty Moncada: You told me about my feelings with the chart. You know, I need to recognize that I have
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Certain days that
Misty Moncada: I need to focus on that because I'm trying to figure out, I want to know what causes that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. And because of your diagnosis with the bipolar. It's from one one extreme to the next. So you go from just, you know, depression, wanted to isolate not be around anyone
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To hyper after social engaging and so make sense of that will be confusing as, like, what exactly is my trigger. So yeah, the journal and emotion chart to be good for you to keep that journalists keep track of exactly what is going on. I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Was gonna ask you something.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: My mind.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh, I would call, um, because I remember I did your bio psychosocial but that was so long ago. So in those moments where you are the press and isolate. Are there any thoughts of wanting to harm yourself or harm anyone else.
Misty Moncada: No, not myself but there's times that I've got really angry and I'm just like, oh, like, like my anger on my boss like this person or
Misty Moncada: This person or whatever.
Misty Moncada: But I have not acted out on those, like, like in the past when I used to think
Misty Moncada: And act on immediately. Yeah.
Misty Moncada: I haven't acted out
Misty Moncada: Or hit anybody since last year.
Misty Moncada: Like I have
Misty Moncada: I've got a theory.
Misty Moncada: That haven't yet hitting but always I fought with my daughter and I hit her. I was mad.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: At him and that was maybe like last month right
Misty Moncada: Yeah. Yes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I would I have with
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Go ahead.
Misty Moncada: No, no, not unless the job was done.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, I said, that's, that's why I was thinking out
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: With the boundaries, watch the video with her with your daughter being there now thinking of what boundaries and you're going to put in place to help keep that relationship healthy. So remember we talked about high love and high boundaries.
Misty Moncada: Yes, I told her that
Misty Moncada: There's going to be roles. You know, I told her if this is
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Going to be rules in this House.
Misty Moncada: If I'm doing everything I can to become better and I expect you know and
Misty Moncada: I hope that those rules remain
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Like
Misty Moncada: It when I go to work. I hope you're still intact.
Misty Moncada: You know,
Misty Moncada: Because I've not. I know that I'm gonna get angry about it, but at the same time, I think I feel happy.
Misty Moncada: She's okay and I'm not stressing
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But you use that powerful statement, you know, if I'm working on myself and my sobriety, then these are my expectations.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Remember the video highlight those if then statements are kind of like that template of how you set your boundaries.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But there's a situation that's occurring, and I don't necessarily know how you want to communicate that this is a no for you to start off with if if fill in the blank, then
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This will happen. So you're already saying if this occurs, this will be the consequence, so that there's no negotiating in that, but right are you know you are strong person so you won't have any issues with that.
Misty Moncada: I hope not, because, like, like I said, you know, there's some days I'll just alternate you like misty all over again. The oldest like I'm trying to work on that. Like, I really, that is my main focus like right now the thing for me because if I can change.
Misty Moncada: That then I'm not going to change and
Misty Moncada: So a lot of things that I did like this, you know, now you don't see no are seeing risk losing everything I just felt good, because I never said that before. I've never, I was just like a lot of like I've had jobs and
Misty Moncada: You know I never cared, and now
Misty Moncada: I didn't even notice about it.
Misty Moncada: I was just like, No, I don't. I don't want you and I wasn't like. Usually I get that and talk crap I didn't see him. Ideally,
Misty Moncada: owe it to myself like I need this. And so to me, that was a big step not raising my voice.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, it's, um, lots of work, but I know this is something that you really want to work on. So you've already identified that this is your goal.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so you already identified some of the steps that will take to get to that call right to say staying busy with work reaching out to the support the to identify me the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The case manager that you're working with. What about within your family who are some supports that will hold you accountable and that you can kind of bounce thoughts off and ideas with
Misty Moncada: Right now.
Misty Moncada: Um, I mean, my mom can be like, I expect my mom what happened the other day.
Misty Moncada: And my mom was like, oh, run and start the ship, but my mom, she can be supportive of me, but she can also be not and right away as soon something
Misty Moncada: So therefore, like, and then
Misty Moncada: My son.
Misty Moncada: My son always some up to no good. So right now I think stepping away from my family right now okay because it's always judgment.
Misty Moncada: Like, well, not always.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Layton.
It's been judgments.
Misty Moncada: Show.
Misty Moncada: I don't know, maybe just my therapy right now.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, so, and then the last from the spiritual component because you had you were doing really well at the church, but now there's been a conflict in that dynamic. So have you. Are you still going to that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Church and become a new church, what has been the replacement for that.
Misty Moncada: No, I haven't. And I won't lie like I really missed her, but I really want all the pastor of my church, friend.
Misty Moncada: He came on here the other day, he was like a pasture ecology, the pastor probably night or the phone call.
Misty Moncada: And like I shouldn't have because I really good saturates I pastors, a great pasture. So when my friend. He was like, maybe you just need to have a one on one with pastor, not his wife will sit tight to explain what's going on.
Misty Moncada: What's bothering you. So I think like the next day that I have some free time, I'm going to do that because I really enjoyed me being an artist.
Misty Moncada: Let you know and and I was helping to celebrate with every, every Monday night, and I was I was helping in the kitchen. I'm serving the meal, helping them in the kitchen. After
Misty Moncada: Every meal.
Misty Moncada: And so like
Misty Moncada: Yeah, I was doing every Monday. Then, after all this happen. I just didn't want to church and like I shouldn't allow things to take
Misty Moncada: Away from me. And I do that a lot, like all i sabotage good things in my life, all the time. I'm like, Oh, forget you. I don't care, you know. And so for me, like, I shouldn't allow that I
Misty Moncada: Don't need that. I need to be like, Okay, you know, I'm working on you. Whenever not not peaceful for today.
Misty Moncada: But I'm working on that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right, because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You are. But I'm really happy that you identified like that that process of self sabotage because that's why I say, Okay, what's the replacement, because if you look at it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: All right. Right now you have that the external support the therapy. The case manager.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Family right now is conflict. They're not supportive. So that's, that's an internal support that's taken away, you have a support of the church, and it's gone.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So finding that replacement because then what happens over time is you isolate yourself and then you're in that room that space that you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Said, where people are calling don't want to put the phone at the care less. Because over course of time, all of those support have already been going away.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And there's been no replacement so you become a customer to just being alone and not having anyone. And what that does is that triggers the depressive state the isolation and the addicted brain thrives on isolation. It thrives on feeling
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right. There's no one that understands you there's no one that can help you. And then the addicted brain convinces you that heroin alcohol, whatever the drug is is that resource for you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's why would I talk about the support so much because the alcohol. The drugs, they all serve a function as a support for you when others are lacking.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So even if it's not this church because I understand the offense, the pastor's wife was
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: out of line with what she did, you know, if that's not a source that you want to go back into, you know, find another one. But if you feel like, and that's what we talked about last week. If you feel like there's a way to amend this situation and and restore it the value
Misty Moncada: Chain.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How does that conversation look like
Yeah.
Misty Moncada: I think it'll be okay with you can
Misty Moncada: See, he's a very good man. He is a very wise.
Misty Moncada: Like I really, really enjoyed in church and everything. It's just, um, I noticed a lot of
Misty Moncada: Laws within his life. Like, I'm not saying I'm perfect. But at least I don't hide my laws like for me. I just kind of felt like, wow, but you're just messed up as I am, you know I'm saying like it and and she tries to hide it from her husband, like your pastor's wife.
Misty Moncada: Like what I should have like one of my old friends stay there and like
Misty Moncada: She stole like an X Box. For some people they try to help out a lot of people. And so she calls me late at night. She's like, don't have this conversation with you, would you know where to find
Misty Moncada: Like
Misty Moncada: Make you know she just
Misty Moncada: There's just some things that she does. It's just not, I don't agree with but I don't want to be her husband.
Misty Moncada: So that's what kind of pushed me away more tools like like I see a lot of things in user dark to, you know, and I like but I mean not everybody's perfect. I'm not trying to be
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Judgmental with your been
Misty Moncada: I just don't feel comfortable speaking
Misty Moncada: In other words, like I don't feel comfortable because I see two sides of her I
Misty Moncada: I feel comfortable talking to her husband and I never had a one on one pastor, but my friend Sean was like, maybe you need to because
Misty Moncada: He said that he was having issues one time and he will talk to him. He said he kept himself never spoke of it. So a shuttle is like if you speak to him. It'll probably happen to you. So I think I'm and I'm over the I'm over the anger, like I'm not angry anymore over it. I'm not frustrated
I just
Misty Moncada: I think I'm ready to talk to you. I just got to find a day off. So I have a maybe a one on one.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, no, prepare yourself if there's a face to face encounter with the pastors. Why do you feel that you're able to manage that. So won't be a trigger and anger trigger for you.
Misty Moncada: Well, yeah.
Misty Moncada: Like I don't
Misty Moncada: make it worse. But like
Misty Moncada: I just don't look
Misty Moncada: Like
Misty Moncada: And I got nobody to judge, but like
Misty Moncada: I just don't act like you're two different people like okay one minute you're you try again where you sit in that crap.
Misty Moncada: And so, but it's not my place to St. Lucia. I'll see how it goes. I mean,
Misty Moncada: I don't, I can't honestly say how I'm going to feel
Misty Moncada: I haven't been biker but like when I see her. I guess I'll see how I feel.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah yeah
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm just, I'm just concerned because it's inevitable, like you said, She's the pastor's wife. So, opening up and being open to the possibility of returning back to the church means
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Really doing the work to get those emotions together and being in that place of forgiveness and realizing on the dark side that I saw.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I see that I know everyone has that dark side. I happen to be exposed and witness her dark side. So how do I move forward with this. How do I make this about my school to journey and kind of separate from what her her journey was
Misty Moncada: Yes, yes, what exactly I was thinking
Misty Moncada: I was like, I like like I explained, I cannot allow people out of that power, where I allow people to take something or they do something and I take it for myself because I open my mouth.
Misty Moncada: And I don't take the I take it for myself because I allow them to control my emotions. I need to stop allowing that because I do a lot. I'll be like, Oh, let me just stop. I need to learn that. Okay, you know what I will do the song.
Misty Moncada: You know, or, you know, just I need to. I need really need to learn on that pause and just kind of like, okay, whatever, like do you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. Yeah, good. So now, now we're adding on our next level we're working on the pause. We're still doing that next week.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But after that pause. I want you to come up with a self affirming STATEMENT LIKE YOU JUST SAID, YOU KNOW YOU'LL reflect this day.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They do them. I'm going to do me. Maybe that's your opening statement or whatever it is, I want you to use that in context.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Throughout the week so that we can continue to build that foundation and that platform for misty to get to that goal of developing these communication skills, but even in situations that trigger anger out of misty
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: She does not just allow it to come through flowing out her mouth, she pauses reflects and uses a firman statement so that she can feel make a negative situation not yield a negative outcome for her. Okay. Yes, that's what that's what we're working on for next week.
Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Let's see. Want to keep the same damn time
Misty Moncada: Sure, sure.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: All right, I'll see you. Take care.
Misty Moncada: Thank you just have a good night.